README.md, before:

# Looping Lab

## Learning Goals

- Build a `for` loop.
- Build a `while` loop.
- Explain the purpose of a loop.
- Understand when to use each type of loop.

## Introduction

In an earlier lesson, we learned about _repetition statements_ —
statements that allow us to break out of the default sequence and repeat a
section of code multiple times. We also learned about two of JavaScript's
repetition constructs: the _while_ loop and the _do...while_ loop. In this lesson
we will learn about a third: the _for_ loop.

Let's say we have a bunch of gifts to wrap. They all happen to be the same size
and shape, so for every gift, we need to cut a similarly sized piece of wrapping
paper, fold it up over the edges of the gift, tape it together, and add a nice
little card. Then we set the wrapped gift aside and move on to the next gift.

In programming terms, we can think of our **collection** of gifts as an
**`Array`** and the act of wrapping them as a function. For example:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGift(gift) {
  console.log(`Wrapped ${gift} and added a bow!`);
}
```

We could then call `wrapGift()` on each gift individually:

```js
wrapGift(gifts[0]);
wrapGift(gifts[1]);
wrapGift(gifts[2]);
```

However, this isn't very efficient or extensible. It's a lot of repetitive code
to write out, and if we had more gifts we'd have to write a whole new line for
each.

This is where loops come in handy! With a loop, we can just write the repeated
action **once** and perform the action on **every item in the collection**.

This is a code-along, so follow along with the instructions in each section.
There are tests to make sure you're coding your solutions correctly. If you
haven't already, fork and clone this lab into your local environment. Navigate
into its directory in the terminal, then run `code .` to open the files in
Visual Studio Code. Finally, run `npm install` to install the lab's
dependencies.

## The `for` loop

Of the loops in JavaScript, the `for` loop is the most common. The `for` loop is
made up of four statements in the following structure:

```js
for ([initialization]; [condition]; [iteration]) {
  [loop body]
}
```

- Initialization
  - Typically used to initialize a **counter** variable.
- Condition
  - An expression evaluated before each pass through the loop. If this expression
    evaluates to `true`, the statements in the loop body are executed. If the
    expression evaluates to `false`, the loop exits.
- Iteration
  - An expression executed at the end of each iteration. Typically, this will involve
    incrementing or decrementing a counter, bringing the loop ever closer to
    completion.
- Loop body
  - Code that runs on each pass through the loop.

**_Usage_**: Use a `for` loop when you know how many times you want the loop to
run (for example, when you're looping through elements in an array).

#### Examples

Let's take a look at an example and get some practice using the Node debugger.
Enter the code below into the `index.js` file.

> **Note:** You can, of course, copy/paste the code rather than typing it in yourself, but we recommend typing it in for now. The act of typing code develops muscle memory and helps your brain understand and internalize the syntax.

```js
for (let age = 30; age < 40; age++) {
  console.log(`I'm ${age} years old. Happy birthday to me!`);
  debugger;
}
```

In the above code, `let age = 30` is the **initialization**: we're creating a
variable, `age`, that we'll use in the next three phases of the loop. Notice
that we use `let` instead of `const` because we need to increment the value of
`age`.

The **condition** for the above loop is `age < 40`, or, in other words, "Run the
code in the loop body until `age` is NOT less than `40`." As long as the
condition evaluates to `true`, the code in the loop body is executed, the value
of `age` is incremented, and the condition is reevaluated. As soon as the
condition evaluates to `false`, the loop ends.

The **iteration** is `age++`, which increments the value of `age` by `1` after
every pass through the loop. We initialized `age` as `30`, and it retains that
value during the first pass through the loop. At the end of the first pass, we
increment `age` to `31`, check whether the condition still holds `true`, and,
since it does, run the loop body again with `age` as `31`. After that second
loop, we increment `age` to `32`, and so on.

The **loop body** is the set of statements that we want to run when the
condition evaluates to `true`.

Let's take a look at what's happening in our loop using debugger. Run `node
inspect index.js` in the terminal to start the debugger. You should see the
following:

![Debugger Output 1](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_1.png)

Now run `cont` at the `debug` prompt to start executing the loop and advance to
the breakpoint. It should look like this:

![Debugger Output 2](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_2.png)

Note, in the first line, that the message has been logged and that `age` is
equal to 30. To verify that, enter `repl` at the `debug` prompt to open the
REPL, then enter `age`. You should see `30` output. Now type `Ctrl-C` to exit
the repl, and enter `cont` at the `debug` prompt to advance to the next
iteration of the loop. You should see the following:

![Debugger Output 3](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_3.png)

Note that the logged output now shows that age is 31. You can continue to step
through the iterations by running `cont` at the `debug` prompt. At any point you
can verify the value of `age` by entering the REPL and typing `age` at the
prompt, then exit the REPL to continue stepping through. When you're done, enter
`.exit` or `Ctrl-C` twice to exit the debugger.

Now let's remove `debugger;` from our code and execute it by running `node
index.js`. You should see the following:

![Happy Birthday logged](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/happy-birthday-to-me.png)

### Using `for` with Arrays

The `for` loop is often used to iterate over every element in an array. Let's
rewrite our gift-wrapping action above as a `for` loop. Enter the following code
into `index.js`:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGifts(gifts) {
  for (let i = 0; i < gifts.length; i++) {
    console.log(`Wrapped ${gifts[i]} and added a bow!`);
    debugger;
  }

  return gifts;
}

wrapGifts(gifts);
```

We started our counter, `i`, at `0` because arrays have zero-based indexes. Our
condition states that we should run the code in the loop body while `i` is less
than `gifts.length` (`3` in the above example). Our iteration, `i++`, increments
our counter by `1` at the end of each pass through the loop.

Run `node inspect index.js` in the terminal to enter the debugger, and `cont` at
the `debug` prompt to advance to the breakpoint. You should see `Wrapped teddy
bear and added a bow!` logged. In our loop body, we reference `gifts[i]`. Since
`i` starts out as `0`, during the first pass through the loop `gifts[i]` is
`gifts[0]`, which is `'teddy bear'`. Continue stepping through the loop by
entering `cont` at the`debug` prompt and remember you can enter the REPL at any
point to check the values of our variables, `i` and `gifts[i]`.

When you're done, remove the `debugger` and execute the code by running `node
index.js`. You should see the following logged to the terminal:

```text
Wrapped teddy bear and added a bow!
Wrapped drone and added a bow!
Wrapped doll and added a bow!
```

### Assignment

In the previous section, the `wrapGift()` function allowed us to take any array
of gifts and loop over them, logging our own message. Let's practice that with a
slightly different idea. To complement our gift wrapping function, your task is
to create a thank you card creator.

In `index.js`, build a function named `writeCards()` that accepts two arguments:
an array of string names, and an event name. Create a `for` loop with a counter
that starts at `0` and increments at the end of each loop. The condition should
halt the `for` loop after the last name in the array is printed out in the loop
body.

Inside the loop, create a custom message for each name from the provided array,
thanking that person for their gift. Collect the messages in an array and return
this array. For example:

```js
writeCards(["Ada", "Brendan", "Ali"], "birthday");
```

Would produce the following array:

```js
[
  "Thank you, Ada, for the wonderful birthday gift!",
  "Thank you, Brendan, for the wonderful birthday gift!",
  "Thank you, Ali, for the wonderful birthday gift!"
];
```

> **Top Tip**: The debugger isn't just for debugging code — you can also use it to help you write your function! Try building the structure of the loop, putting the `debugger` inside the loop body. Even before you start writing the code, you can enter the debugger's REPL and try out code until you figure out how to create the message and add it to an array. Once it's working in the REPL, transfer the code to `index.js`, exit the debugger, and run the tests.

## The `while` loop

Recall from the earlier lesson that the `while` loop is similar to a `for` loop,
repeating an action in a loop based on a condition. Both will continue to loop
until that condition evaluates to `false`. Unlike `for`, `while` only requires
condition and loop statements:

```js
while ([condition]) {
  [loop body]
}
```

The initialization and iteration statements of the `for` loop have not
disappeared, though. In fact, we could rewrite our original `for` loop gift
wrapping example using a `while` loop and achieve the exact same result:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGifts(gifts) {
  let i = 0; // the initialization moves OUTSIDE the body of the loop!
  while (i < gifts.length) {
    console.log(`Wrapped ${gifts[i]} and added a bow!`);
    i++; // the iteration moves INSIDE the body of the loop!
  }

  return gifts;
}

wrapGifts(gifts);
// LOG: Wrapped teddy bear and added a bow!
// LOG: Wrapped drone and added a bow!
// LOG: Wrapped doll and added a bow!
// => ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"]
```

Notice that we've just moved the initialization and iteration statements —
declaring the `i` variable _outside_ the loop, and incrementing it _inside_ the
loop.

> **CAUTION**: When using `while` loops, it is easy to forget to involve iteration. Leaving iteration out can result in a condition that _always_ evaluates to `true`, causing an infinite loop!

Using a `while` loop enables us to check conditions that aren't based on a
counter. Take a look at the following *[pseudocode][]* for an example of how
we could use `while` in a program for planting a garden:

```js
function plantGarden() {
  let keepWorking = true;
  while (keepWorking) {
    chooseSeedLocation();
    plantSeed();
    waterSeed();
    keepWorking = checkForMoreSeeds();
  }
}
```

We can imagine that _while_ we have seeds, we take the same steps over and over:
choose a location for a seed; plant it; water it. Then, check if there are more
seeds. If _not_, do not keep working.

## When to Use `for` and `while`

JavaScript, like many programming languages, provides a variety of looping
options. Loops like `for` and `while` are actually just slight variations of the
same process. By providing a variety, we as programmers have a larger vocabulary
to work with.

Often, you will see `while` loops simply being used as an alternative to `for`
loops:

```js
let countup = 0;
while (countup < 10) {
  console.log(countup++);
}
```

This is perfectly fine as an alternative way to describe:

```js
for (let countup = 0; countup < 10; countup++) {
  console.log(countup);
}
```

If you're feeling a bit lost about when to use a `for` vs. a `while` loop, take
a deep breath. Most of the time, a regular `for` loop will suffice. It's by far
the most common looping construct in JavaScript. A general heuristic for
choosing which loop to use is to first try a `for` loop. If that doesn't serve
your purposes, then go ahead and try a `while` loop. Also, remember that you can
always refer to the [documentation on these loops][loops and iteration] at any
time.

Just don't forget: with `while`, make sure you are updating the condition
on each loop so that the loop eventually terminates!

## Assignment

To get more acquainted with `while`, your task is to write a function,
`countDown`, that takes in any positive integer and, starting from that number,
counts down to zero using `console.log()`. Note that this means that running
`countdown(10);` would actually log _11_ times:

```text
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
```

## Saving Your Work Remotely

Currently, the work you've done on this assignment is only on your local
machine. To preserve your solution on your GitHub fork, you will need to stage the
changes you've made, commit them, and push the commit up to GitHub. Use
the following commands to do this:

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Completed assignment"
git push
```

If you visit your fork on GitHub, you should now see that _you've_ made the most
recent commit, and your code will be present in the files.

## Conclusion

After some time programming in JavaScript, writing a `for` loop will come as
naturally to you as wrapping one gift after another. Just as you slowly become
comfortable using different words and vocabulary to better express yourself,
you will become more acquainted with concepts like `for` and `while` until you
are able to discern the nuanced differences in usage between them.

## Resources

- Codecademy
  - [`for` loop](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript/loops#for-loops)
  - [`while` loop](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript/loops#while-loops)
- MDN
  - [`for` loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for)
  - [`while` loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while)
  - [Loops and iteration][loops and iteration]

[loops and iteration]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Loops_and_iteration
[pseudocode]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudocode

Commit message:

added more directions for 'writeCards()' function

README.md, after:

# Looping Lab

## Learning Goals

- Build a `for` loop.
- Build a `while` loop.
- Explain the purpose of a loop.
- Understand when to use each type of loop.

## Introduction

In an earlier lesson, we learned about _repetition statements_ —
statements that allow us to break out of the default sequence and repeat a
section of code multiple times. We also learned about two of JavaScript's
repetition constructs: the _while_ loop and the _do...while_ loop. In this lesson
we will learn about a third: the _for_ loop.

Let's say we have a bunch of gifts to wrap. They all happen to be the same size
and shape, so for every gift, we need to cut a similarly sized piece of wrapping
paper, fold it up over the edges of the gift, tape it together, and add a nice
little card. Then we set the wrapped gift aside and move on to the next gift.

In programming terms, we can think of our **collection** of gifts as an
**`Array`** and the act of wrapping them as a function. For example:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGift(gift) {
  console.log(`Wrapped ${gift} and added a bow!`);
}
```

We could then call `wrapGift()` on each gift individually:

```js
wrapGift(gifts[0]);
wrapGift(gifts[1]);
wrapGift(gifts[2]);
```

However, this isn't very efficient or extensible. It's a lot of repetitive code
to write out, and if we had more gifts we'd have to write a whole new line for
each.

This is where loops come in handy! With a loop, we can just write the repeated
action **once** and perform the action on **every item in the collection**.

This is a code-along, so follow along with the instructions in each section.
There are tests to make sure you're coding your solutions correctly. If you
haven't already, fork and clone this lab into your local environment. Navigate
into its directory in the terminal, then run `code .` to open the files in
Visual Studio Code. Finally, run `npm install` to install the lab's
dependencies.

## The `for` loop

Of the loops in JavaScript, the `for` loop is the most common. The `for` loop is
made up of four statements in the following structure:

```js
for ([initialization]; [condition]; [iteration]) {
  [loop body]
}
```

- Initialization
  - Typically used to initialize a **counter** variable.
- Condition
  - An expression evaluated before each pass through the loop. If this expression
    evaluates to `true`, the statements in the loop body are executed. If the
    expression evaluates to `false`, the loop exits.
- Iteration
  - An expression executed at the end of each iteration. Typically, this will involve
    incrementing or decrementing a counter, bringing the loop ever closer to
    completion.
- Loop body
  - Code that runs on each pass through the loop.

**_Usage_**: Use a `for` loop when you know how many times you want the loop to
run (for example, when you're looping through elements in an array).

#### Examples

Let's take a look at an example and get some practice using the Node debugger.
Enter the code below into the `index.js` file.

> **Note:** You can, of course, copy/paste the code rather than typing it in yourself, but we recommend typing it in for now. The act of typing code develops muscle memory and helps your brain understand and internalize the syntax.

```js
for (let age = 30; age < 40; age++) {
  console.log(`I'm ${age} years old. Happy birthday to me!`);
  debugger;
}
```

In the above code, `let age = 30` is the **initialization**: we're creating a
variable, `age`, that we'll use in the next three phases of the loop. Notice
that we use `let` instead of `const` because we need to increment the value of
`age`.

The **condition** for the above loop is `age < 40`, or, in other words, "Run the
code in the loop body until `age` is NOT less than `40`." As long as the
condition evaluates to `true`, the code in the loop body is executed, the value
of `age` is incremented, and the condition is reevaluated. As soon as the
condition evaluates to `false`, the loop ends.

The **iteration** is `age++`, which increments the value of `age` by `1` after
every pass through the loop. We initialized `age` as `30`, and it retains that
value during the first pass through the loop. At the end of the first pass, we
increment `age` to `31`, check whether the condition still holds `true`, and,
since it does, run the loop body again with `age` as `31`. After that second
loop, we increment `age` to `32`, and so on.

The **loop body** is the set of statements that we want to run when the
condition evaluates to `true`.

Let's take a look at what's happening in our loop using debugger. Run `node
inspect index.js` in the terminal to start the debugger. You should see the
following:

![Debugger Output 1](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_1.png)

Now run `cont` at the `debug` prompt to start executing the loop and advance to
the breakpoint. It should look like this:

![Debugger Output 2](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_2.png)

Note, in the first line, that the message has been logged and that `age` is
equal to 30. To verify that, enter `repl` at the `debug` prompt to open the
REPL, then enter `age`. You should see `30` output. Now type `Ctrl-C` to exit
the repl, and enter `cont` at the `debug` prompt to advance to the next
iteration of the loop. You should see the following:

![Debugger Output 3](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/debugger_3.png)

Note that the logged output now shows that age is 31. You can continue to step
through the iterations by running `cont` at the `debug` prompt. At any point you
can verify the value of `age` by entering the REPL and typing `age` at the
prompt, then exit the REPL to continue stepping through. When you're done, enter
`.exit` or `Ctrl-C` twice to exit the debugger.

Now let's remove `debugger;` from our code and execute it by running `node
index.js`. You should see the following:

![Happy Birthday logged](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/phase-0/looping-code-along/happy-birthday-to-me.png)

### Using `for` with Arrays

The `for` loop is often used to iterate over every element in an array. Let's
rewrite our gift-wrapping action above as a `for` loop. Enter the following code
into `index.js`:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGifts(gifts) {
  for (let i = 0; i < gifts.length; i++) {
    console.log(`Wrapped ${gifts[i]} and added a bow!`);
    debugger;
  }

  return gifts;
}

wrapGifts(gifts);
```

We started our counter, `i`, at `0` because arrays have zero-based indexes. Our
condition states that we should run the code in the loop body while `i` is less
than `gifts.length` (`3` in the above example). Our iteration, `i++`, increments
our counter by `1` at the end of each pass through the loop.

Run `node inspect index.js` in the terminal to enter the debugger, and `cont` at
the `debug` prompt to advance to the breakpoint. You should see `Wrapped teddy
bear and added a bow!` logged. In our loop body, we reference `gifts[i]`. Since
`i` starts out as `0`, during the first pass through the loop `gifts[i]` is
`gifts[0]`, which is `'teddy bear'`. Continue stepping through the loop by
entering `cont` at the`debug` prompt and remember you can enter the REPL at any
point to check the values of our variables, `i` and `gifts[i]`.

When you're done, remove the `debugger` and execute the code by running `node
index.js`. You should see the following logged to the terminal:

```text
Wrapped teddy bear and added a bow!
Wrapped drone and added a bow!
Wrapped doll and added a bow!
```

### Assignment

In the previous section, the `wrapGift()` function allowed us to take any array
of gifts and loop over them, logging our own message. Let's practice that with a
slightly different idea. To complement our gift wrapping function, your task is
to create a thank you card creator.

> **Note**: Recall the difference between logging and returning values from a function. When we log information we are simply outputting text to a terminal or console. When we return data from a function we will be able to reference and use that information elsewhere because the data is being passed out of the function.

In `index.js`, build a function named `writeCards()` that accepts two arguments:
an array of string names, and an event name. Create a `for` loop with a counter
that starts at `0` and increments at the end of each loop. The condition should
stop once the `for` loop has iterated over the length of the array.

Like our previous `wrapGift()` function, when inside the loop, create a custom message for each name from the provided array using string interpolation,
thanking that person for their gift. Collect the messages in a _new_ array and **return**
this array at the end of the function, after the loop has ended. (Make sure to refresh on how we can add an element to an array.) An example of how the function works is shown below:

```js
writeCards(["Ada", "Brendan", "Ali"], "birthday");
```

In the function call above, an array of three names `["Ada", "Brendan", "Ali"]` is inserted as the first argument and a separate string of `"birthday"` is the second argument. If the function has been set up properly then those three names will be used with string interpolation to build out three 'thank you' messages. Those messages, one for each pass through the loop, need to be added to a new array that you create. Once the loop finishes, and all of the messages have been added to the new array, you need to ensure the new array is being returned from the function.

A working `writeCards()` function would produce the following array as the return value:

```js
[
  "Thank you, Ada, for the wonderful birthday gift!",
  "Thank you, Brendan, for the wonderful birthday gift!",
  "Thank you, Ali, for the wonderful birthday gift!"
];
```

> **Top Tip**: The debugger isn't just for debugging code — you can also use it to help you write your function! Try building the structure of the loop, putting the `debugger` inside the loop body. Even before you start writing the code, you can enter the debugger's REPL and try out code until you figure out how to create the message and add it to an array. Once it's working in the REPL, transfer the code to `index.js`, exit the debugger, and run the tests.

## The `while` loop

Recall from the earlier lesson that the `while` loop is similar to a `for` loop,
repeating an action in a loop based on a condition. Both will continue to loop
until that condition evaluates to `false`. Unlike `for`, `while` only requires
condition and loop statements:

```js
while ([condition]) {
  [loop body]
}
```

The initialization and iteration statements of the `for` loop have not
disappeared, though. In fact, we could rewrite our original `for` loop gift
wrapping example using a `while` loop and achieve the exact same result:

```js
const gifts = ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"];

function wrapGifts(gifts) {
  let i = 0; // the initialization moves OUTSIDE the body of the loop!
  while (i < gifts.length) {
    console.log(`Wrapped ${gifts[i]} and added a bow!`);
    i++; // the iteration moves INSIDE the body of the loop!
  }

  return gifts;
}

wrapGifts(gifts);
// LOG: Wrapped teddy bear and added a bow!
// LOG: Wrapped drone and added a bow!
// LOG: Wrapped doll and added a bow!
// => ["teddy bear", "drone", "doll"]
```

Notice that we've just moved the initialization and iteration statements —
declaring the `i` variable _outside_ the loop, and incrementing it _inside_ the
loop.

> **CAUTION**: When using `while` loops, it is easy to forget to involve iteration. Leaving iteration out can result in a condition that _always_ evaluates to `true`, causing an infinite loop!

Using a `while` loop enables us to check conditions that aren't based on a
counter. Take a look at the following *[pseudocode][]* for an example of how
we could use `while` in a program for planting a garden:

```js
function plantGarden() {
  let keepWorking = true;
  while (keepWorking) {
    chooseSeedLocation();
    plantSeed();
    waterSeed();
    keepWorking = checkForMoreSeeds();
  }
}
```

We can imagine that _while_ we have seeds, we take the same steps over and over:
choose a location for a seed; plant it; water it. Then, check if there are more
seeds. If _not_, do not keep working.

## When to Use `for` and `while`

JavaScript, like many programming languages, provides a variety of looping
options. Loops like `for` and `while` are actually just slight variations of the
same process. By providing a variety, we as programmers have a larger vocabulary
to work with.

Often, you will see `while` loops simply being used as an alternative to `for`
loops:

```js
let countup = 0;
while (countup < 10) {
  console.log(countup++);
}
```

This is perfectly fine as an alternative way to describe:

```js
for (let countup = 0; countup < 10; countup++) {
  console.log(countup);
}
```

If you're feeling a bit lost about when to use a `for` vs. a `while` loop, take
a deep breath. Most of the time, a regular `for` loop will suffice. It's by far
the most common looping construct in JavaScript. A general heuristic for
choosing which loop to use is to first try a `for` loop. If that doesn't serve
your purposes, then go ahead and try a `while` loop. Also, remember that you can
always refer to the [documentation on these loops][loops and iteration] at any
time.

Just don't forget: with `while`, make sure you are updating the condition
on each loop so that the loop eventually terminates!

## Assignment

To get more acquainted with `while`, your task is to write a function,
`countDown`, that takes in any positive integer and, starting from that number,
counts down to zero using `console.log()`. Note that this means that running
`countdown(10);` would actually log _11_ times:

```text
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
```

## Saving Your Work Remotely

Currently, the work you've done on this assignment is only on your local
machine. To preserve your solution on your GitHub fork, you will need to stage the
changes you've made, commit them, and push the commit up to GitHub. Use
the following commands to do this:

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Completed assignment"
git push
```

If you visit your fork on GitHub, you should now see that _you've_ made the most
recent commit, and your code will be present in the files.

## Conclusion

After some time programming in JavaScript, writing a `for` loop will come as
naturally to you as wrapping one gift after another. Just as you slowly become
comfortable using different words and vocabulary to better express yourself,
you will become more acquainted with concepts like `for` and `while` until you
are able to discern the nuanced differences in usage between them.

## Resources

- Codecademy
  - [`for` loop](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript/loops#for-loops)
  - [`while` loop](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript/loops#while-loops)
- MDN
  - [`for` loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for)
  - [`while` loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while)
  - [Loops and iteration][loops and iteration]

[loops and iteration]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Loops_and_iteration
[pseudocode]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudocode
